docs/guide/content/development_guide/index.md, before:

# Development Guide

This section provides everything you need to understand, run, customize, and contribute to the [OnDemand Loop](https://github.com/IQSS/ondemand-loop) application.
Whether you're fixing a bug, extending functionality, or integrating with a new repository, this guide is your entry point.

### Quick Start

Clone the [repository](https://github.com/IQSS/ondemand-loop) and start the local environment using the built-in `Makefile` targets:

```bash
make loop_build
make loop_up
```
The make loop_up command starts the development environment using Docker Compose.
It runs in the foreground, streaming logs from all containers to your terminal.
The shell prompt will not return until you stop the environment manually.

To stop the environment, press <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>C</kbd>. This will gracefully shut down all containers.
Alternatively, in another terminal you can run: `make loop_down`

Once the containers are running visit [https://localhost:33000/pun/sys/loop](https://localhost:33000/pun/sys/loop) and log in with the test user `ood/ood`.

The documentation is organized by topic to help you find what you need quickly:

- [Architecture and Code](architecture.md)  
  Overview of the system design, key components, and how the codebase is organized.

- [Connectors](connectors.md)  
  Details on how OnDemand Loop interacts with external repositories like Dataverse, Figshare, or Zenodo.

- [Local Environment](local_environment.md)  
  How to set up and run OnDemand Loop locally for development.

- [Docker Images](docker_images.md)  
  Information on the Docker-based setup and available images.

- [Open OnDemand](ood.md)  
  Deployment, compatibility, and upgrade guidance for running OnDemand Loop within the Open OnDemand environment.

- [Dataverse Integration](dataverse_integration.md)  
  Specifics on how integration with Dataverse is implemented.

- [Contributing a Change](contributing.md)  
  Best practices and workflow for contributing code or documentation.

- [GitHub Actions](github_actions.md)  
  How CI is handled using GitHub Actions, including testing and deployment workflows.

Each page is self-contained but builds on shared understanding of the architecture and workflows.  
If you're new to the project, we recommend starting with:

- [Architecture and Code](architecture.md)
- [Local Environment](local_environment.md)

Commit message:

Added automated tests to the guide

docs/guide/content/development_guide/index.md, after:

# Development Guide

This section provides everything you need to understand, run, customize, and contribute to the [OnDemand Loop](https://github.com/IQSS/ondemand-loop) application.
Whether you're fixing a bug, extending functionality, or integrating with a new repository, this guide is your entry point.

### Quick Start

Clone the [repository](https://github.com/IQSS/ondemand-loop) and start the local environment using the built-in `Makefile` targets:

```bash
make loop_build
make loop_up
```
The make loop_up command starts the development environment using Docker Compose.
It runs in the foreground, streaming logs from all containers to your terminal.
The shell prompt will not return until you stop the environment manually.

To stop the environment, press <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>C</kbd>. This will gracefully shut down all containers.
Alternatively, in another terminal you can run: `make loop_down`

Once the containers are running visit [https://localhost:33000/pun/sys/loop](https://localhost:33000/pun/sys/loop) and log in with the test user `ood/ood`.

The documentation is organized by topic to help you find what you need quickly:

- [Architecture and Code](architecture.md)  
  Overview of the system design, key components, and how the codebase is organized.

- [Connectors](connectors.md)  
  Details on how OnDemand Loop interacts with external repositories like Dataverse, Figshare, or Zenodo.

- [Local Environment](local_environment.md)  
  How to set up and run OnDemand Loop locally for development.

- [Docker Images](docker_images.md)  
  Information on the Docker-based setup and available images.

- [Open OnDemand](ood.md)  
  Deployment, compatibility, and upgrade guidance for running OnDemand Loop within the Open OnDemand environment.

- [Dataverse Integration](dataverse_integration.md)  
  Specifics on how integration with Dataverse is implemented.

- [Contributing a Change](contributing.md)  
  Best practices and workflow for contributing code or documentation.

- [Automated Tests](automated_tests.md)  
  End-to-end testing with Cypress, including local execution and CI/CD integration.

- [GitHub Actions](github_actions.md)  
  How CI is handled using GitHub Actions, including testing and deployment workflows.

Each page is self-contained but builds on shared understanding of the architecture and workflows.  
If you're new to the project, we recommend starting with:

- [Architecture and Code](architecture.md)
- [Local Environment](local_environment.md)
