README.md, before:

# Dataverse for OnDemand

This project is an integration of Dataverse for Open OnDemand to allow managing the file transferring from
both applications. This software is intended to be run as a Passenger app in a Open OnDemand setup.

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites
Ensure you have the following installed:
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/)
- [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/)
- `make` (usually pre-installed on Linux/macOS, Windows users may need to install it via WSL or Git Bash)


## 📦 Available commands

The following `make` commands are available to manage the application:

### Build and Install Dependencies
- **Build the Docker container to build the application:**
  ```sh
  make loop_docker_builder
  ```
- **Install dependencies and compile assets:**
  ```sh
  make loop_build
  ```

### Start and Stop Containers
- **Start the container in the background:**
  ```sh
  make loop_up
  ```
- **Stop the container:**
  ```sh
  make loop_down
  ```

### Debugging and Logs
- **View development logs for the OnDemand Loop application:**
  ```sh
  make logs
  ```
- **Open a Bash shell inside the OOD container running OOD and OnDemand Loop:**
  ```sh
  make bash
  ```


### Running Tests
- **Run tests using Minitest:**
  ```sh
  make test
  ```
  
## Start developing and running the application

To start developing or running the developer server, run the following commands:

```sh
make loop_build
```
To build the developer container image

```sh
make loop_up
```
To install all gem dependencies and build the assets

The application will be running under `https://localhost:33000/pun/sys/loop`

### Populate local environment with development data

to load the special project folder with sample files to view the application
with some data, run this task:

```sh
rake dev:populate
```

## Install External Tool in Dataverse

Assuming that Dataverse is running locally in `localhost:8080` and this application running standalone in
`localhost:3000`, this will be the command to install the dataset External Tool manifest into Dataverse to
connect both applications:

```bash
curl --location 'http://localhost:8080/api/admin/externalTools' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data '{
  "displayName": "Explore in OOD",
  "description": "A external tool to Explore datasets in OOD and download their files",
  "toolName": "dataverse_on_demand_dataset_tool",
  "scope": "dataset",  
  "types": [
    "explore"
  ],
  "toolUrl": "http://localhost:33000/pun/sys/loop/integrations/dataverse/external_tool/dataset",
  "httpMethod":"GET",
  "toolParameters": {
    "queryParameters": [      
      {
        "datasetPid": "{datasetPid}"
      },
      {
        "datasetId": "{datasetId}"
      },
      {
        "locale":"{localeCode}"
      }
    ]
  },
  "allowedApiCalls": [    
    {
      "name":"getDatasetDetailsFromPid",
      "httpMethod":"GET",
      "urlTemplate":"/api/datasets/:persistentId/?persistentId={datasetPid}",
      "timeOut":270
    },
    {
      "name":"getDatasetDetails",
      "httpMethod":"GET",
      "urlTemplate":"/api/datasets/{datasetId}",
      "timeOut":270
    }
  ]
}'
```

For production deployments, please change the Dataverse server location in the curl command and use the full path of the OOD 
Passenger app in the `fullUrl` JSON property.


### Technical Notes
Adding vanilla JS to the app
app/javascript/collections_status_refresh.js

config/importmap.rb
pin "collections_status_refresh"
```erb
<script type="module" src="<%= asset_path('collections_status_refresh') %>"></script>
```

```javascript
import { cssBadgeForState } from "./utils"
  document.addEventListener("DOMContentLoaded", function () {
    console.log("JavaScript file loaded!");
    myFunction();
  });

  function myFunction() {
    console.log("MyFunction")
    setInterval(() => {
      console.log(cssBadgeForState('error'))
    }, loop_app_config.connector_status_poll_interval)
  }
```

Commit message:

Projects refactoring + project creation + project update + visual improvements (#39)
* Projects refactoring + project creation + project update + visual improvements

* Removed release workflow as it is not required

* Removed redundant code and added Dataverse Download Connector test

* Trying fix for GitHub test action

* Trying fix for GitHub test action

* Removed writing permission to the GitHub test action

* Moved projects custom style into its own CSS file

* Fixed project naming after refactoring

README.md, after:

![Loop Logo](application/app/assets/images/loop_logo.png)

# OnDemand Loop


Application to transfer data from heterogeneous research data repositories into Open OnDemand. With the possibility of syncing the data back.

Creating the perfect loop for research data

The first repository integration is for Dataverse.
Dataverse will be used as the reference implementation for all features related to this application.

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites
Ensure you have the following installed:
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/)
- [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/)
- `make` (usually pre-installed on Linux/macOS, Windows users may need to install it via WSL or Git Bash)


## 📦 Available commands

The following `make` commands are available to manage the application:

### Build and Install Dependencies
- **Build the Docker container to build the application:**
  ```sh
  make loop_docker_builder
  ```
- **Install dependencies and compile assets:**
  ```sh
  make loop_build
  ```

### Start and Stop Containers
- **Start the container in the background:**
  ```sh
  make loop_up
  ```
- **Stop the container:**
  ```sh
  make loop_down
  ```

### Debugging and Logs
- **View development logs for the OnDemand Loop application:**
  ```sh
  make logs
  ```
- **Open a Bash shell inside the OOD container running OOD and OnDemand Loop:**
  ```sh
  make bash
  ```


### Running Tests
- **Run tests using Minitest:**
  ```sh
  make test
  ```
  
## Start developing and running the application

To start developing or running the developer server, run the following commands:

```sh
make loop_build
```
To build the developer container image

```sh
make loop_up
```
To install all gem dependencies and build the assets

The application will be running under `https://localhost:33000/pun/sys/loop`

### Populate local environment with development data

to load the special project folder with sample files to view the application
with some data, run this task:

```sh
rake dev:populate
```

## Install External Tool in Dataverse

Assuming that Dataverse is running locally in `localhost:8080` and this application running standalone in
`localhost:3000`, this will be the command to install the dataset External Tool manifest into Dataverse to
connect both applications:

```bash
curl --location 'http://localhost:8080/api/admin/externalTools' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data '{
  "displayName": "Explore in OOD",
  "description": "A external tool to Explore datasets in OOD and download their files",
  "toolName": "dataverse_on_demand_dataset_tool",
  "scope": "dataset",  
  "types": [
    "explore"
  ],
  "toolUrl": "http://localhost:33000/pun/sys/loop/integrations/dataverse/external_tool/dataset",
  "httpMethod":"GET",
  "toolParameters": {
    "queryParameters": [      
      {
        "datasetPid": "{datasetPid}"
      },
      {
        "datasetId": "{datasetId}"
      },
      {
        "locale":"{localeCode}"
      }
    ]
  },
  "allowedApiCalls": [    
    {
      "name":"getDatasetDetailsFromPid",
      "httpMethod":"GET",
      "urlTemplate":"/api/datasets/:persistentId/?persistentId={datasetPid}",
      "timeOut":270
    },
    {
      "name":"getDatasetDetails",
      "httpMethod":"GET",
      "urlTemplate":"/api/datasets/{datasetId}",
      "timeOut":270
    }
  ]
}'
```

For production deployments, please change the Dataverse server location in the curl command and use the full path of the OOD 
Passenger app in the `fullUrl` JSON property.


### Technical Notes
Adding vanilla JS to the app
app/javascript/collections_status_refresh.js

config/importmap.rb
pin "collections_status_refresh"
```erb
<script type="module" src="<%= asset_path('collections_status_refresh') %>"></script>
```

```javascript
import { cssBadgeForState } from "./utils"
  document.addEventListener("DOMContentLoaded", function () {
    console.log("JavaScript file loaded!");
    myFunction();
  });

  function myFunction() {
    console.log("MyFunction")
    setInterval(() => {
      console.log(cssBadgeForState('error'))
    }, loop_app_config.connector_status_poll_interval)
  }
```
